Hopefully you now have Kubernetes up and running on your local machine.
The first thing we're going to do is just run one simple command to make sure that it is running successfully.
To run this command, we're going to open up a new terminal window, and that's really important.
Please make sure you open up a new terminal window, even if you already have one open.
And in this new window, we will run Kube CTL version.
So go ahead and run that and we should see something print out for a client version and server version.
Now, if you're running a newer version than I am, that is totally fine.
Newer versions of Kubernetes add in some pretty exotic features that we are very unlikely to use any
time inside this course.
So really, we could be using a much earlier version of Kubernetes than what even I'm using right now.
And everything inside this course is still going to work just fine.
Remember, Kubernetes to some degree is about stability because we're using it to manage a tremendous
aspect of our application.
Now that we've got Kubernetes up and running, we're going to take a look at a quick couple of diagrams
here, really just one big diagram and get a quick tour of what Kubernetes is really all about.
So I'm going to walk you through the workflow of how we're really going to use Kubernetes.
Quick note here.
What I'm going to show you is really in depth.
There's going to be a lot of terminology floating around.
I do not expect you to memorize anything.
All of this, any of this.
You don't have to memorize any of it.
I just want to throw some terms out there and start exposing you to a couple of these ideas.
We are going to actually implement the entire workflow that we're about to discuss in just a moment.
So you'll see a much more in-depth version of all the stuff in the coming videos.
All right, so let's get to it.
So here's our diagram.
I'm going to zoom in on a part of it, and we're going to work through this thing step by step.
The first part we're going to take a look at is over here on the left hand side.
So this little workflow right here should look really familiar.
We've got some post files or essentially our post service source code.
We took all those files and a Docker file and we fed them more or less into Docker.
And out of that came an image for our post service.
We can now create as many instances of this image or containers as we call them as we wish.
The image is really the blueprint for how to create a post container.
Now, of course, at some point in time, we're going to want to actually create an instance of this
post image or again, a container.
So to do so, we're going to zoom out here for just a moment.
Sorry.
This is jumping around just a little bit.
There we go.
So we've got our image all created.
That's kind of the prerequisite here.
Whenever we want to use Kubernetes, we have to have a set of images that are already ready to go.
So of course, we're going to want to actually create a container out of this thing at some point in
time.
And we're going to want to deploy it into our Kubernetes cluster.
Now, in the cluster, I have kind of drawn out or diagrammed right here.
I'm showing three separate notes.
And remember, a node is a virtual machine.
It is essentially a computer that's going to run some number of containers for us.
We are currently running Kubernetes on our own personal computers.
If you're running Kubernetes on your own computer, it's extremely likely that you are only running
one node by default.
So you have one virtual machine.
It's only once we start deploying to some cloud provider that we're going to have multiple nodes.
Regardless, everything we're about to discuss works identical.
Whether we have one node or 1000 nodes, it's all the same.
I am going to show three nodes on here just to give a little bit more clarity on what is going on behind
the scenes.
All right.
So to create a container out of image or something out of the post image, we are going to first create
a configuration file.
In this configuration file, we're going to list out some very explicit directions for Kubernetes.
We're going to say, please create two copies of the post image for us, make containers and host them
somewhere on these notes.
Inside that config file.
We are also going to say please allow these copies of posts to be accessible.
So in other words, set up some networking on the on these things.
Allow other containers to get created among these nodes to access these post services that we're about
to create.
So we're going to feed that thing into Kubernetes.
We're going to get that config file into Kubernetes using that command line tool.
We just wrote out a second ago, Cube, CTL.
That's how we interact with our Kubernetes cluster.
The Kubernetes cluster is going to read this config file, read it over and say, okay, well, I guess
I got to create two containers out of posts.
So Kubernetes is going to look out among the world and try to find a copy of this post image.
It's going to first take a look at the Docker Daemon or the Docker server running on your personal computer.
So on your computer, we have built up that post image already.
So Kubernetes is going to look at your local machine and see if there is a copy of that image already
available.
If it is not available, then it will default to looking out at Docker Hub and try to find a copy of
that image there instead.
Either way, Kubernetes is going to try to find that image.
Once it finds that image.
It's going to create two containers.
Because we ask for to and randomly distribute more or less randomly.
Again, there's some science to this.
Distribute those to containers that create get created among these nodes.
So we get two containers like so each container that is created is going to be hosted or essentially
created inside of something called a pod.
For the purposes of this course, this is really important.
For the purposes of this course, you and I are going to be pretty much using the terms pod and container
interchangeably.
Pods and containers in reality are not the same thing, but in the context of this course it is good
enough and I feel pretty strongly about this.
They're not technically the same thing, but I feel pretty strongly that we can safely say a pod in
a container is more or less the same thing.
A pod, technically, it wraps up a container and technically a pod can have multiple containers inside
of it.
But again, for the fourth time, for the purposes of this course, we're going to say a pod and the
container are basically the same thing.
So we asked for two copies of the post service.
So Kubernetes is going to create two pods.
Each of them is going to have a copy of the post container running inside of it.
In order to manage these two pods, Kubernetes is also going to create something called a deployment.
This deployment is going to read in this configuration file over here and it's going to say, Oh, okay,
they wanted two copies of the post image.
So this deployment is going to be in charge of managing both these pots if anything ever goes wrong
with these pods.
So if it crashes for some reason or if it just stops running or whatever else might possibly happen,
this deployment right here is going to make sure that that pod automatically gets recreated for us.
So the deployment is in charge of making sure that we've always got the right number of pods and that
these pods are running successfully.
So now second step here in this config file.
We had also said, please allow us to access these services from other pods or essentially containers
inside of our Kubernetes cluster to do so.
Kubernetes is going to create something else called a service.
Now, this is where life starts to get a little bit confusing because, hey, we are in a course.
You're talking about microservices and now we're introducing this thing called a service.
So the term service in the world of Kubernetes is not like the way that we've been using the word service
throughout this course.
It is not necessarily a running program.
It's not necessarily a running server or a running application server or anything like that.
Instead, a server is something that gives us access to running ODS or running containers inside of
our cluster.
I'm going to zoom in on this a little bit more right now so we can see it a little bit more easily.
So the service is what is in charge of kind of abstracting away all of those difficulties we spoke about
a little bit ago in handling networking among different microservices.
You might recall a little bit ago we looked at a diagram right here like this one more or less, and
we said, Oh yeah, you know what?
This event plus it's kind of challenging for us to have the event.
Plus always know how to reach out to all these different copies of comments that exist and how to know
what port to reach out to as well.
So when we started talking about Kubernetes, we introduced this thing down here where we said, Oh
yeah, just send me a request and I will afford it on to the appropriate service.
So that's what you need, the appropriate we'll say container here.
I don't want to overuse the term service moving forward.
And so that's what this service thing is.
It abstracts away all the difficulties of trying to figure out what IP or what port some given program
is running on.
So if at some point in time in the future we create another pod running, say our event bus over here,
the event bus to reach out to posts.
Either these things right here rather than trying to reach out to that container directly, it's going
to instead just reach out to this service which will be available at a very easy to know or easy to
understand URL.
It won't be like localhost 4005, which is of course really challenging to remember.
Instead, it will be a very well understood URL, something like post serve or post service, something
just very simple, very straightforward doesn't really require a lot of difficult memorization.
And so this service thing is going to make it much more easy for us to get from our event bus and reach
on out to our running pods.
Okay.
So that is our big overview of Kubernetes at this point.
This video is running a little bit long, so we're going to take a quick pause right here.
We'll come back the next video.
And I just want to kind of highlight a couple of really important pieces of terminology.
And then, as I mentioned, we're going to start to implement this exact workflow.